Chrono Trigger
Final Fantasy I
Final Fantasy II
Final Fantasy III
Final Fantasy IV
Final Fantasy V
Final Fantasy VI
Final Fantasy Adventure (Seiken Densetsu)
Secret of Mana (Seiken Densetsu 2)
Trials of Mana (Seiken Densetsu 3)
Live A Live
The Final Fantasy Legend (SaGa)
Final Fantasy Legend II (SaGa 2)
Final Fantasy Legend III (SaGa 3)
Romancing SaGa
Romancing SaGa 2
Front Mission
Hanjuku Hero
Famicom 3D System
Famicom Disk System
Square's Tom Sawyer




I got a riddle for the older fans of #square #squaresoft #squareenix rpgs.

In the Satellaview game Dynami Tracer (Squaresoft), there is a treasure that you only get by completing a quiz about other Square games (all their games before 1996).
I've listed and translated all the pairs question/answer but one, for which I can't find any references anywhere online.

Here is the question: "Seiken Densetsu on Game Boy. What's the name of the alchemist that created the fire shield and ice shield?"
ゲームボーイばん『せいけん でんせつ』。 ファイアシールドと アイスシールドを つくった れんきんじゅつしの なまえは?

The expected answer is: ヒパイストス /hipaisutosu/. Which seems to be a pun (or a typo?) on the Greek god Hephaestus (ヘパイストス /hepaisutosu/). I have no idea if this is an enemy, an NPC or whatnot. The only connection I can find between that name and Square is in FFXIV...

The game (Seiken Densetsu) was released in English as Final Fantasy Adventure in NA and Mystic Quest in EU. So if the name appears in the game, it should have an official translation (which is what I'm looking for). The game does have a fire shield and an ice shield but they are items you buy from a shop. Maybe this is some obscure lore that is not in the game but somewhere else like a manual, a guide or, god forbid, a lost Satellaview magazine.

I skimmed through the Strategy Guide with no success.
https://archive.org/details/seiken-densetsu-final-fantasy-complete-gaiden-complete-walkthrough-book/mode/2up?view=theater

If that matters (maybe they got the wrong game?), here's a list of the other games referenced in the quiz:


If anyone has any idea, be my guest!


Gallament, de l'arène à la tour Magne, à Nîmes.
Gall, amant de la reine, à l'atour magnanime.